Dark Souls is a medieval-fantasy themed adventure in the desolate land of Lordran. Players assume the role of an undead warrior fated to save the world from darkness. To complete his (or her) quest, the hero must explore the world, surmount punishing challenges, and discover the secrets of the Lordvessel and the four Lord Souls. 

The Hero is undead, and like all other undead, he is confined to the Undead Asylum in the north to await the end of the world. However, he is spared this fate by an intervening Knight, who saves him from the asylum, but is grievously wounded in the process. The knight tells the player of his quest: to ring the bell of awakening and learn the true purpose of the undead. Upon escaping the asylum, the player learns he is not the first undead to escape: many have tried and failed in the quest. After journeying across the land and ascending to the city of the gods, the hero restores the world and ends the undead curse. 

Dark Souls is a unique game: with the exception of its predecessor, Demons' Souls, no game has the same mix of deep, unforgiving combat mechanics; unique, meaningful progression systems; dense mythology and lore; and innovative multiplayer functionality. 

At first glance, the combat system seems derivative and unintuitive: the player has a strong, slow attack, and a weaker, quicker attack. However, the initially unsatisfying hack-n-slash techniques quickly give way to a uniquely tactical action game - while the standard techniques of switching between light and heavy attacks (seen in God of War, Devil May Cry, and many other games like them) lend a layer of strategy to the game, the depth at the core of the system comes from stamina management. Players are limited by their stamina: every swing, roll, dodge, and block taxes the endurance of the hero. While stamina regenerates swiftly, guarding with the shield slows its restoration, making combat a tense affair of managing the shield while preserving enough energy to attack when an opening presents itself. To make matters worse, the various monsters that scatter the world of Lordran have no qualms about punishing the player for even the smallest mistakes. 

It's worth noting that Dark Souls is not an easy game. There are no objective markers, quest logs, progress trackers, maps, or on-screen help pop-ups. Beyond a rudimentary tutorial area (which is still harder than the average game's final level) the game does nothing to explain its systems and ruleset, instead leaving the task to the players. The mechanical depth is left for the player to discover at his own pace, which is both an enormous achievement and a common grievance held against the game. The unintuitive menu design and unhelpful interface make discovery of crucial information a stroke of luck for the average player. 

However, Dark Souls need not be experienced alone. The game features a superb multiplayer system that facilitates interaction between players as they journey through Lordran. Players can leave messages warning others about the perils ahead (or luring them to tragic ends) and are rewarded for doing so: players that leave helpful messages (as determined by other players who find them) are healed whenever their message is recommended. In addition to this asynchronous method, players can also directly interact for cooperation or competition. Players who wish to help others can volunteer to be "summoned" as friendly spirits who can engage with enemies and protect their summoner, making the harder opponents in the game slightly more manageable. However, such camaraderie comes at a price; by opting in to cooperative multiplayer, the player opens the way for "invaders," other players who enter the world as evil spirits and fight to the death to defeat their target. The interplay between vicious invaders and friendly phantoms is unique and adds an element of danger entirely divorced from the existing lethality of the world. 

Interface flaws are not the only issues with Dark Souls. The game's massive world is riddled with areas to explore and secrets to uncover, but is also bogged down with occasionally severe performance issues on consoles and insufficiently powerful PC's. Furthermore, some areas seem largely unfinished: the lava-encrusted demons' ruins, one of the most expansive and most challenging areas in the game, suffers from graphical glitches and level design flaws that could easily have been remedied. 

Dark Souls deserves to be in the Hall of Fame because it is the most rewarding game of the generation. Its unforgiving nature and harsh consequences for poor performance border on sadistic, but it walks the line so deftly that even the most devastating defeat only encourages another attempt to delve into the murderous unknown. Through its multiplayer, Dark Souls cements its replayability and variety: whether it's through the rush of single combat against a brutal foe, or the thrill of aiding a new player as they defeat their first boss. And when, after your first, or fifth, or twentieth try, the strongest monster you've faced yet falls to your sword, the feeling of success is nothing short of wondrous. For players dedicated enough to find everything the game has to offer and explore the wealth of Lordran, Dark Souls is an unforgettable adventure and a game that will be remembered for years to come. 

In 2013, there were some severe blunders from a lot of major figures in the gaming industry. EA released a plethora of problematic products, Microsoft revealed its vision of the future and was immediately shouted down by every reasonable voice in the industry, and Nintendo admitted that its new home console was a severe flop. However, in terms of sheer absurdity, one of the best blunders of 2013, and possibly one of the best ever, was Ashes Cricket 2013. Ashes Cricket 2013 is allegedly a game based on the much-loved sport cricket, but the product is so flawed that claiming it bears any resemblance to the sport would be like claiming 52-Pick-Up is a form of poker. This game was so bad that, not only was it cancelled after being released, it also elicited a truly heartfelt apology from its publisher. This apology was so powerful that it was named "Best Apology of 2013" by game journalism website "Giantbomb.com" and included such concessions as "[we will] do what we can to recompense the cricket community" and "our deepest apologies... are reserved for the fans of cricket and cricket games worldwide." (Apology text from www.nintendolife.com) This product was so widely panned, so aggressively flawed, and so spectactularly inadequate that it belongs in the hall of shame. 
